smol fix (#2885)
huggingface/blog: smolvla.md

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/640e21ef3c82bd463ee5a76d/S-3vvVCulChREwHDkquoc.gif" alt="Comparison of SmolVLA across task variations." width="500"/>
  <br/>
  <em>Figure 1: Comparison of SmolVLA across task variations. From left to right: (1) asynchronous pick-place cube counting, (2) synchronous pick-place cube counting, (3) pick-place cube counting under perturbations, and (4) generalization on pick-and-place of the lego block with real-world SO101.</em>
</p>

## Meet SmolVLA! 

**SmolVLA-450M** is our open-source, compact yet capable VLA model. These models are:
- Small enough to run on CPU, train on a single consumer GPU, or even a MacBook! 
- Trained on public, community-shared robotics data
- Released with full training and inference recipes
- Can be tested and deployed on very affordable hardware (SO-100, SO-101, LeKiwi, etc.)

> Inspired by the training paradigms of Large Language Models (LLMs), SmolVLA model go through a pretraining phase on general manipulation data, followed by task-specific post-training. Architecturally, it combines Transformers with **flow-matching decoders**, and is optimized for speed and low-latency inference with the following design choices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inspired by the training paradigms of Large Language Models (LLMs), SmolVLA goes through a pretraining phase on general manipulation data, followed by task-specific post-training. Architecturally, it combines Transformers with **flow-matching decoders**, and is optimized for speed and low-latency inference with the following design choices:
```

> * Skipping the half of the layers of the vision model for faster inference and smaller size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Skipping half of the layers of the vision model for faster inference and smaller size
```

To make real-time robotics easier to use, we introduce an asynchronous inference stack. This technology separates how robots perform actions from how they understand what they see and hear. Because of this separation, robots can respond more quickly in fast-changing environments.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/640e21ef3c82bd463ee5a76d/aooU0a3DMtYmy_1IWMaIM.png" alt="SmolVLA architecture." width="500"/>
  <br/>
  <em>Figure 2. SmolVLA takes as input a sequence of RGB images from multiple cameras, the robot’s current sensorimotor state, and a natural language instruction. The VLM encodes these into contextual features, which condition the action expert to generate a continuous sequence of actions.</em>
</p>

## 🚀 How to Use SmolVLA?
SmolVLA is designed to be easy to use and integrate—whether you're finetuning on your own data or plugging it into an existing robotics stack.

###  Install

First, install the required dependencies:

```python
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/lerobot.git
cd lerobot
pip install -e ".[smolvla]"
```

### Finetune the pretrained model

> Use smolvla_base, our pretrained 450M model, with the lerobot training framework:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [`smolvla_base`](https://hf.co/lerobot/smolvla_base), our pretrained 450M model, with the lerobot training framework:
```

```python
python lerobot/scripts/train.py \
  --policy.path=lerobot/smolvla_base \
  --dataset.repo_id=lerobot/svla_so100_stacking \
  --batch_size=64 \
  --steps=200000
```
### Train from scratch
​​If you'd like to build from the architecture (pretrained VLM + action expert) rather than a pretrained checkpoint:

```python
python lerobot/scripts/train.py \
  --policy.type=smolvla \
  --dataset.repo_id=lerobot/svla_so100_stacking \
  --batch_size=64 \
  --steps=200000
```
You can also load `SmolVLAPolicy` directly:

```python
policy = SmolVLAPolicy.from_pretrained("lerobot/smolvla_base")
```

## Method

> We present SmolVLA, not only as a lightweight yet capable model, but also as a method for training and evaluating generalist robotics policies. In this section, we introduce the *model architecture* behind SmolVLA and the *asynchronous inference* setup used for evaluation, which has proven to be more adaptable and capable of faster recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SmolVLA is not only a lightweight yet capable model, but also a method for training and evaluating generalist robotics policies. In this section, we introduce the *model architecture* behind SmolVLA and the *asynchronous inference* setup used for evaluation, which has proven to be more adaptable and capable of faster recovery.
```

(I think it has already been presented in previous sections)

## Method
We present SmolVLA, not only as a lightweight yet capable model, but also as a method for training and evaluating generalist robotics policies. In this section, we introduce the *model architecture* behind SmolVLA and the *asynchronous inference* setup used for evaluation, which has proven to be more adaptable and capable of faster recovery.

SmolVLA consists of two core components: a **Vision-Language Model (VLM)** that processes multimodal inputs and an **action expert** that outputs robot control commands. Below, we share the details of the main components of SmolVLA architecture and the Asynchronous Inference. More details can be found in our [technical report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2506.01844). 

### Main Architecture
#### Vision-Language Model (VLM)

We use [SmolVLM2](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolVLM2-500M-Video-Instruct) as our VLM backbone. It’s optimized for multi-image inputs and consists of a SigLIP vision encoder and a [SmolLM2](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolLM2-1.7B-Instruct) language decoder.
- **Image tokens** are extracted via the vision encoder
- **Language instructions** are tokenized and fed directly into the decoder.

> - **Sensorimotor states** are projected into a single token using a linear layer to 
> align with the token dimension of the language model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Sensorimotor states** are projected into a single token using a linear layer to align with the token dimension of the language model.
```

- Can be tested and deployed on very affordable hardware (SO-100, SO-101, LeKiwi, etc.)

Inspired by the training paradigms of Large Language Models (LLMs), SmolVLA model go through a pretraining phase on general manipulation data, followed by task-specific post-training. Architecturally, it combines Transformers with **flow-matching decoders**, and is optimized for speed and low-latency inference with the following design choices:

* Skipping the half of the layers of the vision model for faster inference and smaller size
* Interleaving self-attention and cross-attention blocks
* Using fewer visual tokens
* Leveraging smaller pretrained VLMs 

Despite using fewer than 30k training episodes—an order of magnitude less than other VLAs—SmolVLA **matches or exceeds the performance** of much larger models, both in simulation and the real world.

To make real-time robotics easier to use, we introduce an asynchronous inference stack. This technology separates how robots perform actions from how they understand what they see and hear. Because of this separation, robots can respond more quickly in fast-changing environments.

<p align="center">

>   <img src="https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/640e21ef3c82bd463ee5a76d/aooU0a3DMtYmy_1IWMaIM.png" alt="Comparison of SmolVLA across task variations." width="500"/>

Reviewer 2: The alt here is the same as figure one, but the image is different.

​​If you'd like to build from the architecture (pretrained VLM + action expert) rather than a pretrained checkpoint:

```python
python lerobot/scripts/train.py \
  --policy.type=smolvla \
  --dataset.repo_id=lerobot/svla_so100_stacking \
  --batch_size=64 \
  --steps=200000
```
You can also load `SmolVLAPolicy` directly:

```python
policy = SmolVLAPolicy.from_pretrained("lerobot/smolvla_base")
```

## Method
We present SmolVLA, not only as a lightweight yet capable model, but also as a method for training and evaluating generalist robotics policies. In this section, we introduce the *model architecture* behind SmolVLA and the *asynchronous inference* setup used for evaluation, which has proven to be more adaptable and capable of faster recovery.

SmolVLA consists of two core components: a **Vision-Language Model (VLM)** that processes multimodal inputs and an **action expert** that outputs robot control commands. Below, we share the details of the main components of SmolVLA architecture and the Asynchronous Inference. More details can be found in our [technical report](https://huggingface.co/papers/2506.01844). 

### Main Architecture
#### Vision-Language Model (VLM)

> We use [SmolVLM2](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolVLM-500M-Instruct) as our VLM backbone. It’s optimized for multi-image inputs and consists of a SigLIP vision encoder and a [SmolLM2](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolLM2-1.7B-Instruct) language decoder.

Reviewer 2: The link here is for SmolVLM 1, did you actually use that one? Then maybe write SmolVLM

Author: no, sorry it should be SmolVLM 2

- **Image tokens** are extracted via the vision encoder
- **Language instructions** are tokenized and fed directly into the decoder.
- **Sensorimotor states** are projected into a single token using a linear layer to 

> align with the token dimension of the language model.

Reviewer 2: wanted to skip a line here?

**SmolVLA is our first step toward that vision**: It is pretrained on a curated mix of publicly available, community-contributed datasets designed to reflect real-world variation. Rather than optimizing for dataset size alone, we focus on diversity: a range of behaviors, camera viewpoints, and embodiments that promote transfer and generalization.

All training data used in SmolVLA comes from **LeRobot Community Datasets** , robotics  datasets shared on the Hugging Face Hub under the `lerobot` tag. Collected in diverse settings, from labs to living rooms, these datasets represent an open, decentralized effort to scale real-world robot data.

<p align="center">

>   <img src="https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/640e21ef3c82bd463ee5a76d/S-3vvVCulChREwHDkquoc.gif" alt="A glimpse of the community dataset." width="500"/>

Author: I don't know why it is not shown here, but if you render in /new-blog on hf it works. let me know if it is not

>   <img src="https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/640e21ef3c82bd463ee5a76d/S-3vvVCulChREwHDkquoc.gif" alt="A glimpse of the community dataset." width="500"/>

Reviewer 2: This is the same gif as "Figure 1: Comparison of SmolVLA across task variations.". Exact same link. I think you want to show something else here.

>   <img src="https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/640e21ef3c82bd463ee5a76d/S-3vvVCulChREwHDkquoc.gif" alt="A glimpse of the community dataset." width="500"/>

Author: yes! you are very right. I changed that. Great catch

  <br/>
  <em>Figure 3. A glimpse of the community dataset. Special thanks to Ville Kuosmanen for creating the visualization.
Unlike academic benchmarks, community datasets naturally capture messy, realistic interactions: varied lighting, suboptimal demonstrations, unconventional objects, and heterogeneous control schemes. This kind of diversity will be very useful for learning robust, general-purpose representations.</em>
</p>

We used a custom[filtering tool](https://huggingface.co/spaces/Beegbrain/FilterLeRobotData)  created by [Alexandre Chapin](https://huggingface.co/Beegbrain) and [Ville Kuosmanen](https://huggingface.co/villekuosmanen)  to select datasets based on frame count, visual quality, and task coverage. After a meticulous manual review (special thanks to Marina Barannikov), we curated a collection of **487 high-quality datasets** focused on the **SO100 robotic arm**, standardized at **30 FPS**. This yielded around **10 million frames**—at least **one order of magnitude smaller** than other popular benchmark datasets, yet significantly more diverse.

> The full list of datasets used for training is provided in the appendix of the paper.

Reviewer 2: this is a blog, so either link to the paper or remove this sentence

**SmolVLA is our first step toward that vision**: It is pretrained on a curated mix of publicly available, community-contributed datasets designed to reflect real-world variation. Rather than optimizing for dataset size alone, we focus on diversity: a range of behaviors, camera viewpoints, and embodiments that promote transfer and generalization.

All training data used in SmolVLA comes from **LeRobot Community Datasets** , robotics  datasets shared on the Hugging Face Hub under the `lerobot` tag. Collected in diverse settings, from labs to living rooms, these datasets represent an open, decentralized effort to scale real-world robot data.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/640e21ef3c82bd463ee5a76d/S-3vvVCulChREwHDkquoc.gif" alt="A glimpse of the community dataset." width="500"/>
  <br/>

>   <em>Figure 3. A glimpse of the community dataset. Special thanks to [Ville Kuosmanen](https://huggingface.co/villekuosmanen) for creating the visualization.

Author: done
